[MUSIC PLAYING]
SURMA: So it's December.
JAKE: Yeah.
SURMA: The last month of 2017.
And usually, we make plans for
the next year, which is 2018.
JAKE: Yes.
SURMA: And so I thought I
would give myself two minutes
to talk to you about my plans.
JAKE: OK.
What are your plans?
SURMA: So my plan is the
template proposal from Apple.
JAKE: Oh.
Apple template proposal.
SURMA: The Apple
template proposal.
JAKE: So what have
they proposed?
So we've already got templates--
things like Mustache,
and Handlebars,
that sort of thing.
SURMA: Yeah, those are
templating engines.
In this case, we're talking
about the template tag in HTML.
JAKE: That's already shipped.
SURMA: That has shipped.
And it's there, so you can
clone, instantiate, sub--
like, partial DOM trees
really, really efficiently.
JAKE: But otherwise, I've
never really used it.
I just use it as a parser hack.
SURMA: Exactly.
And that's kind of what
they want to augment.
They want to add
the capabilities
of adding bindings.
We know from Mustache, we said,
in this particular position
in the template, I would like to
use this value from a variable.
JAKE: So how-- we already have,
sort of, a template language
on the web, because we've got
JavaScript template language.
So what's the difference?
SURMA: The difference
is that in this case,
this would be baked very
efficiently into the browser.
It would basically do things
like we talked about hyperHTML,
and lit-HTML, do
these kind of things,
that it would remember which
bits are actually mutatable.
And then you can just
update the instance
by giving it a new state
object, which you rip out
the version it needs, puts
it in the right positions,
and you have an
updated, DOM fragment.
JAKE: Oh, so it is very
much like hyperHTML,
lit-HTML on that.
SURMA: It seems to
be very similar.
I don't know how
the implementation
would look under the hood.
But from the
developer's perspective,
it is very similar.
But in this case, you could just
write it in your HTML markup,
rather than to have to wire up--
import a library, and to use
the HTML tag string template.
Literal.
JAKE: Literal.
So are other browsers
interested in this?
SURMA: As far as I
know, the reactions
were fairly good to it.
It was discussed at
CheapHack, and the proposal's
out on GitHub.
And everything looked
fairly positive.
There's some kinks that
have to be figured out.
But other than that,
it seems like browsers
are very much interested.
JAKE: Sounds like a
nice, high-level thing
to augment web
components and stuff.
SURMA: For example,
yeah, shutter DOM,
all these sort of things can
make good use of templates.
And I think it's going to
be interesting in 2018.
[8 BIT VERSION OF "THE
TWELVE DAYS OF CHRISTMAS"]
JAKE: Good timing.
And the thing I'm going
to describe to you
is a flatMap in flatten.
SURMA: What?
JAKE: Good question.
These are methods that
are going to go on arrays.